Now let's talk about the industry stakeholders.
They include medical device companies,
software companies, and hospitals.
Many medical device companies who manufacture X-ray, CT,
and MRI devices typically have accompanying imaging software.
They also build their own AI algorithms to run on their hardware and are subject
to the same regulatory guidelines for their algorithms as standalone software companies.
Good examples of this are Siemens and GE,
who manufacture CT and MRI devices.
They can build AI algorithms into their software that reconstructs images.
So for example, every time
a chest x-ray is taken with one of their machines and send to a pax,
it could be automatically assessed for lung nodules.
The industry around standalone software companies is growing every day with many startups
popping up that focus specifically on AI algorithms for particular types of imaging,
such as digital pathology,
or for particular clinical applications,
such as algorithms for breast cancer detection.
These software companies can act more dynamically
because they are not tied to a specific hardware system.
But this also poses a regulatory challenge for them,
because the FDA wants to know if an algorithm performs the
same across all hardware systems and if not,
which ones it's appropriate for.
Some good examples of companies in this space are Zebra,
who actually provides a work-list Prioritization solution
similar to the one you performed earlier in this lesson,
as well as a bone health diagnostic for CT and breast health diagnostic for mammography.
Another interesting company in this space is called Path.AI,
who does disease diagnostics from digital pathology images.
Finally, hospitals are a key stakeholder,
as they are typically the customer for such algorithms.
Hospitals must be sure that they have
adequate infrastructure needed for algorithm deployment,
such as cloud resources or on-site GPUs.
More than that, in order to purchase an algorithm,
a hospital or radiology department must
be convinced that it will save them money in the long run.
This could be through optimizing clinical workflows and saving radiologists time,
or by reducing the need for certain types of expensive imaging.
Hospitals are also interested in getting better care to patients.
But remember, radiologists are very good at their jobs and
a smart market strategy is not necessarily to
be better than the radiologist at making diagnoses,
but rather helping them to perform their jobs more easily.